We thank the AE and reviewers for the feedback on our work. Below we specify how the concerns have been addressed in this revision of our paper.


Reviewer 1:

This paper proposes a way of visualizing high dimensional data while “breaking the curse of dimensionality”.

The idea is to loosen the concentration near the mean and spread them toward the outside. This transformation is done so that if data are uniform inside high-dimensional hypersphere, they also appear uniform in the low-dimensional display. Even though I think the idea is interesting and the method is potentially useful in some cases, overall I find this work not contain enough contribution to the field or have in-depth discussion to be published in JCGS.

Also I have a couple of comments.
• The geometric feature of high dimensional data mentioned in introduction that motivates the proposed idea
is no longer a concern in the data in reduced dimensions, e.g., the first five principal component scores
(See Figure 7). How would the authors justify the proposed sage method when the dimension is not high
to have the curse of dimensionality?
  REPLY: Because of the exponential scaling of the volume with number of dimensions, we can already notice the curse of dimensionality with such relatively low number of components. In the paper we use examples with 10 dimensions that are clearely already problematic (see Figure 1 and Figure 3). In addition Figure 4 shows that already the case of p=4 leads to a notable transformation of the radius. We have added a sentence in the introduction that clarifies this use of the term "high-dimensional" in our work.

• As many multivariate statistics assume normality, isn’t it more natural to keep the normality rather than
uniformity? For example, it is known that random low-dimensional projections of high-dimensional data
tend to behave normal-like. Related to this point, bottom panels in Figure 2 look somewhat distorted and
overly corrected.
  REPLY: The transformation we are proposing can be considered as purely geometrical, how we are mapping a high-dimensional volume onto a low-dimensional plot. It can be used for any type of data and does NOT assume an underlying distribution (uniform or otherwise). We have expanded on this in the introduction to avoid confusion. It is not cleare which graph is mentioned here, since Figure 2 does not have a bottom panel.

Reviewer 2:

You have challenged the curse of dimensionality, which is a feature of high-dimensional data. The spike structure of eigenvalues is also the important feature in high-dimensional data analysis (see; Statistica Sinica, Aoshima and Yata, 2020). This structure is different from the spherical concentration, and is a phenomenon observed (for example, gene data analysis). Therefore, you should mention this point as well.
  REPLY: TODO

AE:

This appears to be a useful new tool and the article is well-written.
However, there needs to be a broader discussion of the underlying
problem, e.g., how important is the assumption of uniformity in
high-dimensional space (and how well do the tuning parameters cope
with deviations from the assumption) and how well does the technique
cope with other high-dimensional features (see the reviewer comments).
Also, there needs to be more discussion of alternative solutions to
problems of overplotting and data crowding, e.g., slicing the projections
and even just semitransparency.  Seen through this lens, could things
like contour lines or other displays of distributions be contemplated?
